We're coming to the end of
part 2 of the tutorial.
This section is a little
bit of a mishmash.
We've got a bunch of different special
elements that Svelte provides to your
components and they don't really
have anything in common with
each other other than the fact that
they belong to the Svelte name space.
So the first of these is svelte solve and
that is something that allows
a component to reference itself
recursively, and it's useful things
like this folder tree view,
where a folder can contain another folder.
So inside our Folder.svelte component,
we would wanna be able to do something
like this, where we have the file here,
would like to be able to add a folder
that references the same component but
that's impossible because
a module can't import itself.
So instead we use svelte:solve here.
And now the folder is
containing other folders.
And we can do that to an arbitrary depth.
An interesting fact about this is that if
you try and do this at the top level of
a component, it will yell at you because
that would cause an infinite loop.
It's smart enough to know that is not
a thing that you should be doing.
Now, a component can change its type
altogether with the svelte component
element.
In this exercise,
we wanna show red thing.svelte
if the value of the selected color is red.
And we wanna show a green
thing if it's green, and
we wanna show blue thing if it's blue,
and so on.
Now, we could do this with
a sequence of if blocks
inside that box svelte like
we started doing here.
And then if we select a different color,
it would show the green
thing in the blue thing.
That's a lot of code to have to write,
it's more convenient to
make that data driven.
So as will create a single
dynamic component,
get rid of that entire block,
ad svelte component.
And then the attribute is called this.
We're gonna pass in
the selector component.
So you see up here that the value
that is getting passed in is actually
the constructor of the component.
And now when we change the value
of that via the Select,
we're rendering a different component
And we can do the same
thing with elements, right,
in the same way we could have,
if selected equals h1,
we'll have a block of h1 content,
distillates equals h2, and so on.
But that's just no fun, instead,
get rid of all of that.
A new spell element,
And put some content inside.
I'm a less than slated.
Greater than, Element, like so.
And then now if we change to
one of the other options,
it recreates the dom automatically.
And so
the value of this can be any string or
it can be a false value in which case
no element will be rendered at all.
We've already seen how you can add
event listeners to DOM elements.
We can also add event listeners
to the window object using
the special spell window element.
In this exercise,
whenever we focus the window and
press a key, we would like to
show what key was pressed.
We're gonna assign to these key and
key code values, and
then we're gonna show that inside the app.
This is just a more convenient way of
using window.addEventListener, it will
automatically remove event listeners
when this component is unmounted.
Just like with DOM elements, you can use
event modifiers like prevent default.
As well as adding events to Svelte window,
we can bind to certain properties of it.
So here we've got a nice little piece
of artwork generated by Midjourney and
we would like to bind the current
scroll position to this y value.
And we can do that very easily,
bind scroll y equals y.
And now when we scroll, it reflected,
again it's giving us fractional
values because my site is zoomed in.
So, just change that and it update
smoothly, and that's a bidirectional
binding if you change the value of Y it
will also update the scroll position.
So, few different properties that you
can bind to, width, height, scroll and
also the online binding which is
an alias for window.navigator.online.
This is useful for displaying
a message like you lost the internet,
you need to reconnect to Wi-Fi or
something like that.
As well as the window, we have a way of
adding event listeners to the body element
which you typically are not rendering
yourself because normally you would mount
your cell components inside the body,
you don't control the actual body.
So we have Svelte body to listen to
events like mouse enter and mouse leave.
And mouse enter we want this,
here kitty value to become true.
And we'll just copy that line and
reverse it on mouseleave it becomes false.
And then now if we enter the iframe,
kitty comes out to play.
Similarly, we have the svelte
document element which is useful for
the selection change handler in particular
which does not fire on the window.
So we can add this on selection
change event listener.
Which is gonna get
the current selection and
assign it to this selection value there.
It can also select itself
which kinda gets pretty crazy.
I don't recommend it.
And then we can also add
a Svelte head element.
Which is very useful for things like SEO.
You can add a document title,
you can add descriptions and
things like that,
that will appear in search results pages.
That's what it's mostly useful for,
although it's not visible in
the context of this tutorial.
So we're gonna use something
a little bit different.
We're gonna use it to load a stylesheet.
At the svelte head element, And then,
inside the link, rel = stylesheet.
And we have a selection of style
sheets up here that we can pick from.
Beginning with
the the Margaritaville theme and
you can pick whichever
of these you must enjoy
Getting into the nuts and
bolts of how the compiler works when you
invoke the Svelte compiler,
which typically you're not doing.
Your bundler plugin is doing this for you.
But when that happens,
you can pass options to the compiler that
control how the component is compiled.
But those are for
all of the components in your app.
Sometimes you wanna have some compile
options that are component specific,
and that's where we use
the Svelte options element.
There's a few different options that
you can pass to the compiler and
we'll use the immutable
option as our example.
So in this app whenever we change
the value of one of these todos,
all of the todos
are updated simultaneously.
And that's because we have
an after update function here,
which causes the element to flash
whenever the value is updated.
That's not really a problem here, that's
fine because it's gonna be fast enough
that it's not gonna affect
the performance of your application.
But you might have some situations where
you have some very complex data and
you just wanna make sure that a component
doesn't update unless you know for
sure that its values have changed.
So we can tell the to do
component that it should only ever
update anything when the data
that is passed into it changes
by reference as opposed to when it
is told that its data has changed.
This isn't something that
you'll use often, but
it's a handy thing in some circumstances.
So now if I change the value
of any of these todos,
only the todo in question is being
updated, the others being left alone.
Few other options that you can set,
accesses controls whether or
not the instance of
a component exposes its props
as accesses on the object
that you have a reference to.
You can pass in a custom namespace,
and you can control the tag name if
you're compiling your Svelte
components as custom elements.
If you wanna know more about these,
consult the API reference.
Earlier, we learned about using slots
to pass content into a component.
In this exercise,
we're making a tic tac toe game.
And we have a board component,
and inside that board component,
we're passing some content
which is supposed to
appear in each of the grid
cells defined by the board.
So if you look inside the board component,
we are creating a grid which has
a certain number of columns and
a certain number of rows.
But what's happening here is because
we have a div with the slot equals
game attribute, we're putting all of
the buttons inside the first element and
it's not being spread out
into the rest of the grid.
What we want to have is
these buttons as direct
children of the div class equals board and
we can do that by replacing
that div with a spelt fragment.
All right, so
now the buttons that we are declaring now
are direct children of
the div classic was born.